One morning, Gregor Samsa wakes up to discover that he has been transformed into a monstrous verminous bug. His family is concerned for him and he attempts to comfort them and assure them he will be fine, but his transformation has inconvenient consequences for his job as a travelling salesman. His family and work colleagues are horrified by his new appearance, and his boss is unsympathetic. His family also suffers from the change in their circumstances, and Gregor resolves to provide for them as best he can, despite the discomfort they feel around him. He spends the day attempting to come to terms with his new abilities and limitations, and his new perception of his surroundings. His sister briefly enters his room the next morning and he is struck by her kindness in providing him with food. He gobbles it down quickly, realizing his new hunger and physical limitations. Before his transformation, Gregor Samsa dreams of being less sensitive, but after he is transformed he eats ravenously, ignoring the fresh food his sister brings and dragging himself back to the couch where he struggles to breathe in the confined space. His family is indifferent to his plight, struggling to pay the rent and embarrassed and frustrated by Gregor's inability to do so. They are embarrassed by his presence, and his sister is terrified of him. She opens the window to breathe after she leaves his room, suggesting that his room smells bad. She also helps move the furniture out of his room, but when she accidentally wounds Gregor with a splinter of glass and some corrosive medicine, she shuts him out of the room. Later, his father misinterpreted Grete's message and assumes Gregor has committed a crime, and he attempts to coerce Gregor back into his room with brute force. The family has settled into a routine of tending to Gregor's basic needs, but they are unable to move to a smaller apartment, seemingly frozen by their misfortune. The family is indifferent to Gregor, except for his sister and the cleaning woman, who threatens Gregor with a chair when he shows aggression. The lodgers are meticulous and particular about their surroundings, which is ironic considering Gregor's current state. When the lodgers complain about the 'disgraceful conditions' of the apartment and announce their intention to leave, Gregor's father attempts to bar them from seeing Gregor again. The lodgers are irritated both by the father's behaviour and by the fact that they have learned of Gregor's existence. They declare that they will pay nothing for their time in the apartment and even consider suing the family. Gregor's sister rushes to make the beds in their room and completes this task quickly and leaves the room. She states that if it were Gregor, he would have left long ago. When the sister cries out that he is starting again, the father reacts protectively, moving between her and Gregor, but she pushes him away. Gregor attempts to turn himself around and return to his room, amazed at the distance he had previously traversed without noticing. The text describes Gregor's lack of appetite and his distaste for the food he is given.