The narrator, who resides in Algiers, has traveled 50 miles to the rural French village where his recently deceased mother spent the final three years of her life to make the funeral arrangements. He intends to sit with her body through the night in the death chamber. On the following day, he will accompany the coffin to the village church and then to the cemetery. He is anxious for the day to end so that he can return to work in Algiers and tell his boss that he is taking a three-day weekend, not a four-day one as he had anticipated. He will subsequently go to the beach and run into an old girlfriend named Marie Cardona. They spend the day together and go to the movies that evening, after which she returns to his place. When he awakens, however, she is gone. He spends the next day watching the activity in his street from his window, growing weary of the monotony of his life. The narrator is portrayed as alienated from the world and emotionally cut off from those around him, whether they are alive or dead. The narrator describes a typical day in his life in Marseille, which begins with a pursuit of a truck with a group of friends, eventually reaching Céleste's restaurant. He drinks wine at the restaurant and takes a nap. He later rushes to catch the streetcar to work and almost bumps into Salamano and his sickly dog. Both Salamano and his dog have the same gait due to their sickness, and the narrator notes that they both appear to hate each other. On this particular day, the narrator is invited to dinner by Raymond Sintès, a resident of his floor who is easily angered. Sintès became angry at a man on a streetcar who insulted him about a woman, and Sintès defeated him in a brutal fight. However, the fight resulted in Sintès's hand being wounded, and upon arriving at Raymond's apartment, he wraps it in a bandage. Sintès then reveals that he financially supported the woman, but she was ungrateful and disloyal, so he beat her and ended their relationship. However, he reveals that he still has feelings for her and seeks Raymond's advice on how to punish her further. - The narrator of The Stranger is called Meursault and is on a bus journey to the beach outside Algiers. - He is with Raymond, who has some trouble with some Arabs, and Raymond's friend Masson. - They enjoy a swim and a delicious lunch, after which they are confronted by two Arabs. - Raymond and Masson attack the men and they are forced to back away when the Arabs produce a knife. - Raymond is wounded and the group returns to the bungalow. - Raymond suggests killing the Arabs when they next see them, but Meursault persuades him to try insulting them and shooting them if they answer back. - They arrive back at the bungalow and Raymond's Arab is playing a flute on the beach. - The narrator goes for a walk towards a rock and stream, but finds the Arab has disappeared. - The next part of the story jumps forward and the narrator is in prison. - He is questioned by a magistrate who wants to know why he killed the man. - The narrator can't explain his actions and the magistrate grows frustrated, eventually pulling out a crucifix and asking if he believes in God. The narrator is in prison, awaiting trial, and he finds the experience brings home his feelings of confinement and loss. He is able to draw on inner resources which help him to cope with his situation and he finds solace in the routine of prison life. The narrator is on trial for the murder of his mother. The prosecutor is seeking to prove that he killed her for the monetary gain of inheriting her estate. The narrator's behavior is presented as further evidence of his lack of remorse and empathy. The narrator reflects on the prosecutor's case and the implications of his actions. He is frustrated that he is not allowed to speak in his own defense. He is returned to prison to await the verdict. The narrator's lawyer delivers a defense attempting to prove that he is a kind person who was unable to support his mother. The narrator himself shows little interest in the proceedings. The narrator, a prisoner on death row, waits for dawn and the result of his appeal, hoping for a loophole in his sentence. He pays close attention to the sky and the sound of his heart beating, trying to pass the time. He regrets his ignorance of escape methods and execution procedures, and imagines a wild, exulting feeling he believes an onlooker would experience. He ponders altering the laws to give a condemned man a small chance, but recognizes the guillotine's flaw in offering no chance at all. He contemplates the interest and significance all men attach to execution, and imagines attending every execution if he were to escape. As he waits, he has a shivering fit, his teeth chattering uncontrollably. The narrator has no wish to see the chaplain, but is drawn into a conversation about life, death and God. He tells the chaplain he is not afraid of dying, but of its effect on his dignity and the chaplain argues that God can help. The narrator insists he will not die, but the chaplain says he may face something worse. The narrator is shaken but feels calm after expressing his feelings, thinking of his mother and feeling connected to her situation.